adding saved replies to development guide, under triage (#23109)
matplotlib/matplotlib: doc/devel/git_workflows.rst

.. _git_workflows:

Git workflows
=============

When reviewing contributions, we sometime refer to this page to offer more detailed git workflows.

.. _git_rebase:

Rebase
^^^^^^

> If you want to rebase, the first thing to do is to squash all your commits into one, which will make the job easier.
> Make sure you are in the PR branch, then to rebase do::
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to rebase, the first thing to do is to make a backup branch::

$ git checkout my-working-branch
$ git checkout -b backup-my-working-branch
$ checkout my-working-branch

If you mess anything up, you can always get back to where you were pre-rebase by doing::

$ git checkout my-working-branch
$ git reset --hard backup-my-working-branch

Next, we suggest you squash all your commits into one, which will make the rebase easier.
Make sure you are in the PR branch, then to rebase do::

```

$ git rebase --interactive upstream/main

Git opens the last commits you made in our terminal editor (often it's vim) and you need to follow the instructions in
the file. Basically replace 'pick' by 'fixup' (or simply 'f') in all but the first commit (exit vim using `:wq` to

> write/save and quite). Then update your main branch from upstream, change back to the PR branch and do::

Author: I thought adding the exit vim clue would save a lot of people a lot of searching 😉 I saw something similar in the [GitLab documentation for interactive rebase](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/topics/git/git_rebase.html#interactive-rebase) and I thought it was kind and helpful. I tried to keep it more concise and be clear it's just an example.

> write/save and quite). Then update your main branch from upstream, change back to the PR branch and do::

Reviewer: I'd hate for people to read our instructions and come away with the impression that they have to learn `vi` before they can master a rebase.  If you want a generic vt100-compatible text editor `pico`/`nano` would be a _lot_ more suitable for beginners who are just slavishly following our instructions.

> write/save and quite). Then update your main branch from upstream, change back to the PR branch and do::

Author: I wholeheartedly agree. I don't think I implied that people need to master vim though?! At least on macs vim is the default editor, and I don't know how many beginners change it 🤷‍♀️  So likely the first time they run a rebase it would open in vim, and they might not know what to do. This means we need to add [instruction for mac users](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/501862/how-can-i-set-the-default-editor-as-nano-on-my-mac) to change the `.bash_profile` before they run rebase to nano to change their default, and/or a hint on how to exit vim. I am not sure what's the common default editor on windows and linux.

> $ git rebase main
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ git fetch upstream
$ git rebase upstream/main

```

and if there are problems, do ``$ git status`` to see which files need fixing, then edit the files to fix up any
conflicts (sections marked by "<<<") . When you are done with that::

$ git add <the fixed files>
$ git rebase --continue
$ git push --force-with-lease origin HEAD

If you have any problems, feel free to ask questions.

PS.
If at any point anything goes wrong, and you don't know what to do, just do::

$ git rebase --abort

and everything will go back to the way it was in the before ``$ git rebase`` times, and you can come back to your PR,

> or to `gitter`_, and ask us for help, or that we do the rebase for you 😉.

Author: I like the addition of the backup! 🙇‍♀️  I used a backup tag so far to revert. Probably the branch strategy is less stressful and I should use that too 😃
